(Cheerful whistling tune)
Next up, we have flex wrap and
we are going to be working with
giving these elements widths and
what happens when there is too much space and
they go wider than they should be.
Now, one thing I want you to do right now is
take your existing knowledge of floats and
when you run out of space it
just breaks on to the next line.
Take that and just throw it out for a second because
the nature of flexbox is that it's flexible and
it's actually like a little bit more forgiving than
when you have regular old floats.
So, what we're going to do right here is that
we've got this container here,
the display flex on it and
I'm gonna go ahead and select each of
these individual boxes.
Now, if you remember back to video one,
we call this a flex container and
then this was called the what?
The flex item.
Now, I really hope you just answered there.
So, we're gonna go ahead and select the flex item and
we can go ahead and give it a width,
let's say like 300 px.
Give it a save and
refresh and whoa!
So, I just gave each box a width of 300 pixels and
10 boxes times 30, sorry 300 pixels each.
What that means is that is 3000 pixels.
Clearly my screen is not 3000 pixels wide so,
and I'm not actually scrolling side to side.
So, this is kinda cool.
The nature of flexbox is that it's going
to try to work with width that you give it,
but if it just doesn't work out,
it's just going to, first of all,
evenly distribute it throughout the children or
we're going to learn about flex, the actual flex property,
in a future video where you can
sort of assign more and less to other ones.
So, that's where flex wrap comes in.
Again, this is a property that we don't put on
the flex item, we put it on the flex container and
we'll say, flexwrap and by default its nowrap.
It's just one word, there's no dash in it like
some other stuff in css just the word nowrap.
If you save that and refresh you'll see nothing happens.
Again, you won't need that one
unless you actually turn it off.
But we also have wrap, and we'll talk about wrap.vr.
If I say flexwrap wrap and refresh,
whoa, look what happens there.
A couple things to note here.
It actually works with 300 pixel now.
So we got one, two, three.
We got three of them in before we run out of space,
and it breaks onto the next line.
That's sort of important.
We'll figure out how we can get rid of that in a second.
The other thing is, look at the height of them.
We didn't give these a height.
But if you remember back to before we wrapped them,
how high were each of them?
They were as high as the actual container could be.
By default, flex items will try to
stretch their way across their container.
Of course that is because I have put a height on here.
If I didn't have that they would just be like that.
When we turn the wrap on, it sorta says,
"Okay, so we need to stretch across our container,
"but we also need to split it up between the 10 of us."
So what happens here is that the browser figures out that
we need four row here, and we're just going to
split it amongst each other.
You'll notice that the height of these is a
little higher than it needs to be.
It only really needs to be as high as this number one
plus some padding on either side.
Then I'll just kind of stretch across
and fit it to the other ones.
Now one thing I wanted to note here is that
my items are going left to right because
I speak English and I have an English browser
that's set to English.
However, if I was writing a language that went
right to left, some languages read right to left,
then they would be switched to the other side.
Again, let's talk about our axis'.
Our main axis goes from left to right
and our cross axis goes from top to bottom.
However, if I change this wrap from wrap-reverse
and refresh it, what happens is, remember before when we did
flex direction our cross axis went
from left to right to right to left.
When we change our flex wrap, the cross axis,
which goes top to bottom in this case,
instead of going top to bottom
it goes from bottom to top.
I just did a quick swap of that
and my items are still starting at the left hand side
because my main axis starts from left to right.
But they start at the bottom and go on up.
I don't know, that's not something you
probably will come across super often.
Not likely you'll want to reverse your items,
but if you have it you've got it.
So going to bring that back to wrap,
give it a refresh.
I want to talk about filling in the space.
This works similar to every other box model
in that you can use 33.3333333 percent
and give it a refresh and your items will go
from one to three, one to three, one to three.
What happens if I change my flex direction to column?
Remember by default it is row.
We're going to change it to column
and give it a refresh.
Well what happened there?
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10.
What actually happened there,
nevermind this white space,
we'll learn about that in a future video,
is that because we have this height 100vh set on it,
again the height is just this golden rod border across,
it reaches the bottom here.
It can no longer fit in an eighth one.
It says, "I'm outta space.
"I need to wrap around vertically."
Because we switched the main axis
from going from left to right,
which means that it would wrap from left to right,
and now it hits the bottom and it's going to
wrap again from the top there.
If we took this height, or in some of the other videos
I had a min height on there and refreshed,
it goes all the way down.
How come? Because it never needs to wrap.
If we keep scrolling we've got all the space that we want.
We could add 100 items and we'd be able
to scroll from top to bottom.
One last thing is, if I change this back to
flex-direction:row or if I just
take it off entirely since that's the default,
and I go to the box and add the margin of
let's say 10px and give it a refresh
what happens is that it breaks.
You may be familiar with this from
your normal float space layout in that margin
is not part of the box model,
which means when I give it a width of
33 percent plus 10px, that means I'm overbudget.
It's 33 percent plus 10px on either side
plus 10px on either side,
it's gonna break onto the other side.
If you really wanted to do that,
you could do something like calc,
it's a new thing in CSS.
You could set the width to 33.3 percent
minus 20 pixels because it's 10px on each side,
and then that will actually go ahead and
resize it to 33 percent minus the margin that you needed.
If I change that back, the margin is broken.
But if I use padding here, you see that it's fixed now,
because padding, I use the box sizing
border box padding and border.
10px solid mistyrose
Padding and border are part of the box model
whereas margin is not.
That is just something to keep in mind
if you're ever having a break.
That's it for this video.
In the next one, we're going to take a look
at reordering items in flex box,
which is something that, instead of just putting
all our flex properties on the flex wrapper,
we are going to go on the flex item instead.
(Cheerful whistling tune)